TCPA Regulatory Compliance for Text Messages Business Requirements DocumentVersion: 1.0Prepared by: Stacy SwintDate: Feb 19, 2026Revision HistoryDateVersionDescriptionAuthorJan 31, 2026Draft .1Original DocumentStacy SwintFeb 11, 2026Draft .2Modified BRD as follows:Added in the Release Description: This effort specifically focused on the global opt outAdded to In Scope- Sending the “global opt out of text messaging” confirmation text message from TCPA API and not from the applicationAdded to Out of Scope- “Creation of program/campaign specific text messages” from TCPA API to be out of scopeAdded to Out of Scope- Dialer IVR does not have a data flow identified for inclusion in the TCPA APIAdded to Out of Scope- Multi-factor authentication is excluded due to the DMZ data flow not in scope and MFA does not utilize cool textingAdded to Out of Scope - Application opt-outs applying to global opt out in TCPA API  Added to Assumption A0001 that in addition to Twilio, Cool Text was part of the messaging platformAddition of a TCPA API Overview section to display main points of how TCPA API will workAdded Risk 1: Difference of opt-out status that is set in the application and in the TCPA API due to some applications can opt-in at the application level.  TCPA opt-in process to be a manual process (TBD), with possible time delays in updating the text message statusAdded Risk 2: Chance that an opted-out cell number is reassigned to a new customer who selects the opt into text message feature and then not getting the text messages to the TCPA API status not visible in the applicationsRemoved OOBR05 due to communication with the applications and TCPA API not in scope for phase 1 Updated reference to Southern Gas to Southern Company Gas throughout documentStacy SwintFeb 19, 20261.0Modified BRD as follows:Updated “ARMS” to “ARM” in the BRDChanged from draft version to version 1.0Updated the assumptions (A0001 and A0002) with name (Prashant P)  and date of confirmation (2/19)Labeled appendix info as “Applications In Scope” to identify what apps were in scope and what texts are sent todayIncluded CCB/My Accounts (Future) in the list of “Applications In Scope” due to the release possibly going live 2nd qtr. 2026Stacy SwintProject InformationRelease Name: TCPA Regulatory Compliance for Text MessagesRelease Description: To implement a centralized filtering system that ensures all outbound text messages comply with TCPA regulations. This effort specifically focused on the global opt outRelease Owner:  Jim Stagg  (Tech Lead)Product Name:   TCPA Regulatory Compliance and RegulationsProduct Description: TCPA is a federal statute that aims to protect consumer privacy by controlling telemarketing communications made via calls, fax and SMS texts.  Project Manager:  Kimler DyeBusiness Analyst:  Stacy SwintStakeholders:    Customer OperationsMagdalena Rivera, Jennifer Marten, Marta DeLoach, Carlton Coleman, Luke HoustonField OperationsTBDResource ManagementTBDBusiness Requirements Lock Date:Release Comments:Table of Contents1.	DOCUMENT PURPOSE	62.	DOCUMENT AUDIENCE	63.	IN SCOPE	64.	OUT OF SCOPE	65.	ASSUMPTIONS	76.	EXECUTIVE SUMMARY	77.	TCPA API OVERVIEW:	88.	RISKS	89.	BUSINESS REQUIREMENTS	99.1.1	Requirements Statements	99.1.2	Requirements Categories	99.1.3	Requirements - Priority Legend	109.1.4	Business Requirements- Opt-Out	109.1.5	Business Requirements- Reporting	1410.	REFERENCES	1510.1	Related Documents	1511.	SIGN-OFF	1512.	APPENDIX	1512.1	Author’s Notes	1512.2	Other Relevant Information	1612.2.1	Applications in Scope	1612.3	Definitions, Acronyms, and Abbreviations	16Business Requirements Document Document PurposeThe purpose of the Business Requirement Document (BRD) is to provide details concerning the scope and business needs of the project.  This includes identifying boundaries (i.e. in or out of scope), business context and high-level evaluation criteria, key elements of business requirements, and technical standards where relevant.Document Audience Internal AuditingLegalGas Technology Solutions DeliveryDTSIn ScopeCreation of a centralized filtering system (TCPA API) for outbound text messages in compliance with TCPA Regulations Integration of filtering system to all Southern Company Gas applications that send outbound SMS text messagesStandardize Opt-Out process for the following Southern Company Gas applications:BizTalkGCMAKMIARM Construction PortalFuture (any Southern Company Gas app supporting text messaging, i.e. CC&B, My Account)Sending the “global opt out of text messaging” confirmation text message from the TCPA API and not from the applicationsOpt-out global text message to be one standardized message that includes verbiage informing the cell number that they have opted out of ALL Southern Company Gas applications and a phone number to call to re-opt in to text messaging.Implementation of changes for the following Southern Company Gas LDCs in the United StatesVirginia Natural Gas (VNG) Chattanooga Gas Company (CGC) Nicor GasAtlanta Gas Light  Audit and logging of text participation (opt-in/opt-out) as outlined in compliance guideOut of ScopeInitial opt-in to text messaging capabilities - to continue to be supported at the application levels (existing process)Automated update of the “opt-out” status of a customer back to an “opt-in” status in the TCPA API Updating the TCPA API opt-out status back to opt-in, to be a manual process (to be defined)Creation of program/campaign specific text messages by the TCPA API for the customer- messages to be created by the applications based on the program/campaign (existing process)Creation of a solution outside of Southern Company GasEmergency cases (i.e. gas leaks, service interruptions, etc.)- Currently no text message notifications are in place for emergency notifications todaySMS texting practices performed by vendors on behalf of Southern Company Gas (example: ACI SpeedPay Twilio and Google Notifications (future)) due to non-access and non-integration with Southern Co. Gas and vendor systemsDialer IVR does not have a data flow identified for inclusion in the TCPA API.  Therefore, IVR is currently excluded and  includes the following, which are out of scope and can still send text messages regardless of opt out status on the TCPA API:IVR Part 280- Shut Off NoticePURL RequestAGLC- Atlanta IVR- Marketing List URLMulti-factor authentication is excluded due to the DMZ data flow not in scope and MFA does not utilize Cool Texting.  Application opt-outs applying to global opt out in the TCPA API.  If opting out of text messaging on the application, the opt out will only apply to that application.  Only when the text message is sent to opt out of text messaging will it be received and applied by the TCPA API.  It will then be enforced for all applications whose cool text account is set up on the TCPA APIAssumptions IdentifierAssumption DescriptionConfirmed By:Confirmed Date:A0001Twilio and  Cool Text are the messaging platforms in use by Southern Company GasPrashant Pathak2/19/2026A0002From the TCPA API perspective, all customers are considered globally opted-in until we receive a request to opt-out.  Opting in however to occur at the application level and no text message are sent until the customer officially opts-in in the application (GCMA, KMI, ARM, BIZTALK, etc.)Prashant Pathak2/19/2026Executive Summary Southern Company is currently at risk of non-compliance with the Telephone Consumer Protection Act (TCPA) due to inconsistent handling of opt-out requests across various applications that send outbound text messages. This exposes the company to potential legal penalties, customer dissatisfaction, and reputational harm. The lack of a centralized mechanism to track and enforce opt-out rules uniformly across platforms makes it difficult to ensure that consumer consent is respected in accordance with TCPA and CTIA guidelines. A new section of the Telephone Communications Protection Act (64-1200) now extended to Jan 31, 2027, provides more control to consumers over the ability to revoke prior consent to be contacted (or “opt out”) for all communications from a specific LDC/OpCo.   Effective Jan 31, 2027, any SMS “opt out” from a customer phone number will require all SMS communications to that customer phone number to cease from the OpCo who sent the message that prompted the opt out.     TCPA API Overview:To provide a solution that acts as a middleman between the applications and cool textingThe TCPA API to contain the Cool Text Account number for the identified data flows/applications that are in scope.  The TCPA API will receive and accept messages sent from both ends (the cell phone number and from the applications) and will send those exact messages to each.  Upon receipt of the messages, the applications will take the appropriate action based on program logic. The applications will continue to function as they do today. Only applications whose cool-text account has been set up in the TCPA API will be impacted by this solutionTo identify the seven STOP keywords in the text messages and upon receipt of any of these keywords to set the text message status to opt out in the TCPA APIThe opt out status to be set to “OPT-OUT” only on the TCPA API database (TCPA API will not opt out at application level)The exact text message received from the customer with the STOP keywords will be sent to the applications in which the application shall take the same action to opt out the cell phone number at the application levelTCPA API will then send out a standardized global opt out text message informing the customer that they are opted out of text messages from ALL Southern Company Gas applications and direction on how to opt back in if desiredOpt out confirmation messages to the customer from the application will not be sent (only the one message from TCPA API)To restrict sending text messages to cell phone numbers that have been identified as opted out in the TCPA APIOnly requests sent via cell phone text to opt out of  text messages will be listed in the TCPA API. If a cell phone number opts out of text messaging on the applications, this does not change the TCPA API status due to there is no exchange of cool texting info.Once the cell phone number is opted out on the TCPA API,  text messages sent from Southern Company Gas applications, where their cool text accounts are set up on the TCPA API, will be restricted and not sent. RisksRisk Identification and Analysis1-Lowest Probability / Impact; 10-Highest Probability / ImpactIDDescription of RiskProbabilityImpactRisk ExposureOwnerRisk Status(Avoid, Minimize, Transfer, Accept, Close)Mitigation Plan / Delegated To1Difference of opt-out status that is set in the application and in the TCPA API due to some applications can opt-in at the application level.  TCPA opt-in process to be a manual process (TBD), with possible time delays in updating the text message status555Prashant PathakAcceptReporting to be created to capture messages sent to customers who have opted out of text messaging, to include the application and the message.  This will provide insight to possible status differences that may need to be addressed.2The chance that a cell phone number that has been reassigned to a new customer, is opted out of text messaging and the new cell phone user attempts to opt into text messaging in the application, not knowing the cell number is opted out and not getting the text messages233Prashant PathakAcceptUpon non-receipt of text messages, as identified in reporting or contact from the customer, to have a process in which a Help Desk Ticket Request to re-opt in the cell phone number will be opened and addressed   Business RequirementsRequirements StatementsThe ICE concept is used to ensure an organization has a clearly documented requirement that can be interpreted consistently between associates and business partners.  This concept is implemented in a number of different ways; the implementation chosen in this document is intended to help all experience levels and audience types to grasp the concept. Each requirement should include the following items: requirement statement, intent of the requirement, context of the requirement and evidence of the requirement.  Requirements CategoriesThe requirements category column is used in the detailed requirements table to track the type of requirement being gathered.  These categories are generally assigned based upon the solution being requested.  Some categories of business requirements are listed below.Requirement CategoryDescription of CategoryAPIThis category is used to track API requirements -exchange of data and functionality between applicationsDBThis category is used to track database requirementsReportingThis category is used to track both internal and external reporting requirements.  This could be operational reporting or analytical reporting.Requirements - Priority LegendThe priority legend is used in order to help manage the scope of the solution, as compared to the business case.  The more critical the priority the more likely the requirement must be fulfilled in the initial release of the product or service.  The lower priority requirements are still important but may not need to be fulfilled on day 1 of the implementation.  This prioritization will be used when trying to manage to a specific delivery date, with a defined set of resources.PriorityPriority DescriptionMustMust be delivered to meet the business case or provide the required functionalityShouldShould be delivered with the project.  However, there are alternate methods and approaches to provide the required functionality.CouldSupports system operations and functions; desired eventually but could wait until a later release if necessary.Business Requirements- Opt-OutReq. idReq. CategoryRequirements StatementExisting CapabilityICEPriority (M,S,C)CommentsOOBR01DBThe system shall have the ability to support an on-demand audit log of opt-out text message requestsNIntent: To have quick access to records of the text message statuses of gas customers for compliance verification and tracking purposesContext: Occurs based upon opt-out text requests from Southern Company Gas company applicationsEvidence: There will be a record written in an audit log of opt-out text requests and action takenMTCPA Database Audit Log to be createdOpt-out request to include the following data:Date/Time StampApplicationCell Phone NumberKeywordSystem ResponseOther info as required by TCPARetention period:  5 yearsOOBR02APIThe system shall have the ability to send the text information received from the customer to the applicable Southern Company Gas applicationNIntent: To provide the information received in the SMS text messaging to the application in which the response was intended Context: Occurs upon receipt of text messaging Evidence: A notification to be sent to the Southern Company Gas applications, of the exact customer request receivedMUpon receipt, the application takes the appropriate action which may be to send out a response to the customerMessaging could include STOP and/or HELPOOBR03APIThe system shall have the ability to identify and parse out the seven opt-out keywords in SMS text messages sent by the customer Note:STOP text requests can be provided as STOP, QUIT, END, REVOKE, OPT-OUT, CANCEL UNSUBSCRIBE Receipt of any of these  keywords to imply STOP and shall be handled in the same mannerNIntent: To provide a centralized system where op-out text requests are identified upfront/upon receipt of the text message from the customerContext: Occurs when a text reply is received and contains one of the 7 opt-out keywords identified by TCPAEvidence: The text reply will be seen as a request to opt out of text messaging by the TCPA API MSTOP request to be handled as opt-out requestsSouthern Company Gas applications supporting text messages include BizTalk, GCMA, KMI, ARMOOBR04APIThe system shall have the ability to update the text message status to opt-out for the cell phone number sending a STOP request via text Note:Acknowledgement of Opt-out request to be sent to the customer within 60 secondsProcess of the Opt-Out of text messages to be done within 10 daysSTOP text requests can be provided as STOP, QUIT, END, REVOKE, OPT-OUT, CANCEL UNSUBSCRIBE NIntent: To set the text message status to opt-out for the cell phone number sending the STOP SMS text messages in the TCPA APIContext: Occurs for cell phone numbers where an opt-out request was receivedEvidence: The cell phone number will be set as opted out of text messages in the TCPA API. Confirmation of opt-out to be sent to the customer at the application levelMOpt-out notification process is currently handled at the application level.  To continue to be handled at the application level Opt-out requests may be received via text or selected by the customer in the applicationOOBR05Removing this requirement due to current scope does not include communication with the application and TCPA API.  This is identified as a risk.APIThe system shall have the ability to update the text message status to opt-out for the cell phone number requesting a STOP when opting out is presented as an option in the application and selected by the customer Note:Acknowledgement of Opt-out request to be sent to the cell phone number within 60 secondsProcess of the Opt-Out of text messages to be done within 10 daysSTOP text requests can be provided as STOP, QUIT, END, REVOKE, OPT-OUT, CANCEL UNSUBSCRIBE NIntent: To set the text status to opt-out in TCPA API when the user has opted out in the Southern Company Gas application Context: Occurs when the customer selects the option to opt-out of text messaging in the app Evidence: The cell phone number will be set as opted out of text messages in the TCPA API.  Confirmation of opt-out to be sent to the customer by TCPA APIMOpt-out notification process is currently handled at the application level.  To continue to be handled at the application level Opt-out requests may be received via text or selected by the customer in the applicationOOBR06APIThe system shall have the ability to restrict SMS text messaging to the cell phone number where the customer’s text status is opt-out in TCPA APINIntent: To enforce the request of the customer to no longer receive text messaging for the given cell phone numberContext: Occurs for cell phone numbers where the text status is set to opted out Evidence: No text messages will be sent to the cell phone number requesting the opt out MThere will be an opportunity for a cell phone number to opt back into the text messaging program- manual process to be defined.   OOBR07APIThe system shall have the ability to update the status from opt-out to opt-in for customers who have made the decision to re-opt into text messagesNIntent: To support the ability to re-opt into text messaging     Context: Occurs when an opted-out customer has a change of decision and wants to receive SMS text messages       Evidence: The opt-out text status for the customer’s cell phone number will be updated to opt-in in TCPA APIMThis to be a manual process (to be defined) and may require a Help Desk ticket.  May possibly also be updated by application development with script updateAt this time, a change in the application to opt back into texting will not automatically update the TCPA APIOOBR08Removed requirement due to out of scope for Phase 1APIThe system shall have the ability to send the opt-out text status to the Southern Company Gas applications NIntent: To provide notification to the Southern Company Gas applications of the cell phone number text message status      Context:   Occurs when the cell phone number has opted out of text messaging      Evidence: An opt-out notification will be sent to the Southern Company Gas applications for the given cell phone number opted out of text messagingCUpon receipt of the opt-out notification, the application shall display an opt-out text message status.  This is to be visible to the call center and applications supporting text messagingOOBR09APIThe system shall have the ability to send a global opt out of text messaging to the cell phone number that has opted out of texting by replying to Southern Company Gas applications with a STOP messageNIntent: To provide feedback to the cell phone number sending a STOP text request, that the opt out is to be applied to all Southern Company Gas applications and how to re opt into messaging if desiredContext:  Occurs when a cell phone number has provided a STOP text request (to include any of the 7 keywords identified as opt-out )Evidence:  The TCPA API will send the standardized global opt out of text messaging response to the cell numberMGlobal opt out text message to be written.  To have ONE message for all, regardless of LDC, that includes a phone number to re opt into text messaging if wanting to reenrollBusiness Requirements- ReportingReq. idReq. CategoryRequirements StatementExisting CapabilityICEPriority (M,S,C)CommentsRPBR01DBThe system shall have the ability to report on SMS text messages sent to cell phone numbers that are opted into a Southern Company Gas text message campaign NIntent: To capture the success of text messages for opted in cell phone numbers Context: Occurs when a SMS text is sent to an opted in cell phone numberEvidence: A report can be derived to capture info on the opted in cell phone number and text message(s) sent MReport to include:Opt-In/Opt-Out StatusCell phone numberSouthern Company Gas ApplicationDate/Time Stamp of message sentMessage sentRPBR02DBThe system shall have the ability to report on SMS text messages sent to cell phone numbers that are opted out of the Southern Company Gas text message campaign NIntent: To capture when text messages are sent to opted-out cell phone numbers Context: Occurs when an SMS text is sent to an opted-out cell phone numberEvidence: A report can be derived to capture info on the opted-out cell phone number and text message(s) sent MReport to include:Opt-In/Opt-Out StatusCell phone numberSouthern Company Gas ApplicationDate/Time Stamp of message sentMessage sentRPBR03DBThe system shall have the ability to automatically create weekly reporting of the following:Alerts for messages sent to opt-out cell phone numbersAlert for messages sent to opt-in cell phone numbersOpt-out success rate (compliance KPI)NIntent: To provide periodic compliance reports and alerts for failed enforcement so that risks are mitigated.Context: Report to be generated weekly Evidence: A Compliance Report to be created to capture failed enforcement in which messaging was sent to opted-out cell phone numbers MReferencesRelated DocumentsDocument TitleLocationAuthorDate<name><Network><name><mm/dd/yyyy>Sign-off NameJim StaggsSignatureTitleMgr, Gas Architecture & IntegrationDateCompanySouthern Company GasNameLuke HoustonSignatureTitleMgr, Digital Portfolio DeliveryDateCompanySouthern Company GasNameBeth Ann HendrixSignatureTitleBusiness Optimization & Innovation MgrDateCompanySouthern Company GasAppendixAuthor’s NotesIssue  IDDescriptionStatusResolutionContact(s)Other Relevant InformationApplications in ScopeBizTalkIs the data source that supports text messaging in GCMA and KMISends text messages on deferred payment arrangementsGCMA:Send text messages for Shut Off Non-Payment. No other text messages currently sentKMI ActiveSend text messages for status updates on field work orders for opted in customers Customers opt into KMI at the order level (multi opt ins based on work performed)Customers may also reply via text to cancel, reschedule, request help or opt out by replying with a number option (i.e. 1 = opt out; 2 = help; 3 = cancel appt 4 = reschedule) Utilized by Atlanta Gas LightARM/Construction PortalTo go live with text messaging Feb 2026 (Text Campaign Name: GlanceAndSee)Sends text messages to “potential” customers; 10 Steps with status update messages (and some sub steps).  Messages sent once all tasks are completed or user opts outCCB/ My Account (FUTURE)Targeted go-live TBD (possibly 2nd quarter 2026)Sends text messages to gas customers on gas bill alerts for cell phone numbers opted into the campaignCampaign supports 4 alerts (Credit Card Expiration, Possible High Bill, Payment Due and Payment Posted)Text campaign will be supported in both CCB and My Account (shared data source) for opted in cell phone numbersProduction analysis and debug logs to be created to show actions performed by TCPA API.  The logs will contain details that can be used by IT to identify successes, failures and the behavior of the API.  It will also provide feedback on the activities performed for review and validationDefinitions, Acronyms, and AbbreviationsDefinitions, Acronyms, and AbbreviationsDescriptionCC&BCustomer Care & Billing is the Company's customer care and billing system.  This internal application contains all past and current billing and payment information, premise histories, customer histories, and account information.CTIA (Cellular Telecommunications and Internet Association)CTIA is the leading trade association for the U.S. wireless industry, representing carriers, suppliers, and device makers while advocating for spectrum, broadband, and wireless infrastructure.Opt-In/Consent (to text messages)Agreement made by the gas customer to receive text messages from Southern Company Gas for the phone number(s) selected.  This is for participation in text message programs.  Opt-Out (of text messages)Decision to not receive any text messages from Southern Company Gas for the selected phone number.  Opting out will remove the phone number from all text message programs and not just specific alertsTCPA (Telephone Consumer Protection Act)The TCPA (Telephone Consumer Protection Act) is a federal statute enacted in 1991 designed to safeguard consumer privacy. This legislation restricts telemarketing communications via voice calls, SMS texts, and fax.TCPA APIThe reference to the Southern Company Gas Application Programming Interface that is to be developed (per these requirements) to support the Federal TCPA text rules and regulations TCPA Section 64.1200 Code of Federal Regulations  TCPA Consent Order.  On February 16, 2024, the Commission released the TCPA Consent Order adopting various rules governing, and issuing clarifications relating to, the ability of consumers to revoke consent to receive unwanted robocalls and robotexts.   In so doing, the Commission adopted section 64.1200(a)(10) of the rules, which requires in relevant part that “[i]f a called party uses any [reasonable] method to revoke consent, that consent is considered definitively revoked and the caller may not send additional robocalls and robotexts.” Effective date for this requirement extended until January 31, 2027TwilioTwilio is a customer engagement platform used by over 335,000 global enterprises and digital disruptors plus more than 10 million developers worldwide to build unique, personalized experiences for their customers.For well over a decade, they’ve been known for democratizing channels like voice, text, chat, video, and email through APIs, giving organizations the tools to build meaningful interactions with customers on the channels they prefer. 
